review(tutorials): updated documentation MTA-2390 (#1009)
scaleway/docs-content: tutorials/jitsi-ubuntu-focal-fossa/index.mdx

  description: This page shows you how to install Jitsi Meet Videoconferencing on Ubuntu Focal Fossa (20.04 LTS)
content:
  h1: Installing Jitsi Meet on Ubuntu Focal Fossa (22.04 LTS)
  paragraph: This page shows you how to install Jitsi Meet Videoconferencing on Ubuntu Focal Fossa (20.04 LTS)
steps:
  - step: Installing Jitsi Meet
    type: HowToStep
    url: https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/installing-jitsi-meet-videoconferencing-ubuntu-focal-fossa/#-Installing-Jitsi-Meet
categories:
  - compute
tags: compute mediaserver media video-sharing conference-call Jitsi-Meet
dates:
  validation: 2022-11-17
  posted: 2022-11-17
---

[Jitsi Meet](https://jitsi.org/jitsi-meet/) fully encrypted, open source video conferencing tool that does not require subscription or the need to create an account. 
The tool provides features like:

- screen sharing
- presentations
- inviting users to a conference through a custom URL
- editing documents together using Etherpad
- integrated chat

<Message type="requirement">
  - You have an account and are logged into the [Scaleway console](https://console.scaleway.com)
  - You have [configured your SSH key](/console/my-project/how-to/create-ssh-key/)

>   - You have a [Scaleway Instance](/compute/instances/how-to/create-an-instance/) running Ubuntu Focal Fossa (for better performance, we recommend that you use an instance with **at least 4 GB of RAM** - DEV1-M or larger)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - You have a [Scaleway Instance](/compute/instances/how-to/create-an-instance/) running Ubuntu Focal Fossa (for better performance, we recommend you use an Instance with **at least 4 GB of RAM** - DEV1-M or larger)
```

  - You have a domain or subdomain pointed to your Instance
</Message>

<Message type="note">
  This tutorial shows the installation of Jitsi Meet on Ubuntu Focal Fossa. If you prefer the installation of Jitsi Meet on Ubuntu Bionic Beaver, follow [this tutorial](/tutorials/jitsi-ubuntu-bionic).
</Message>

### Installing Jitsi Meet

1. Configure the hostname of the server corresponding to your domain or subdomain.
    ```
    hostnamectl set-hostname jitsi
    sed -i 's/^127.0.1.1.*$/127.0.1.1 jitsi.mydomain.tld jitsi/g' /etc/hosts
    sed -i 's/^127.0.0.1.*$/127.0.0.1 localhost jitsi.mydomain.tld jitsi/g' /etc/hosts
    ```

> 2. Update the apt packet cache and upgrade the software installed on the instance to the latest version available on the Debian repositories.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Update the apt packet cache and upgrade the software installed on the Instance to the latest version available on the Debian repositories.
```

    ```
    apt update && apt upgrade
    ```
3. Install an [Nginx](https://nginx.org) web server. The Jitsi installation tool handles the Nginx configuration if it is present on the system.
    ```
    apt install -y nginx
    systemctl start nginx.service
    systemctl enable nginx.service
    ```

    <Message type="important">

>         If Nginx or Apache are not installed, Jitsi Meet will automatically install [Jetty](https://www.eclipse.org/jetty/) during the installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        If you have not installed Nginx or Apache, Jitsi Meet will automatically install [Jetty](https://www.eclipse.org/jetty/).
```

    </Message>

4. Download and install the Prosody package repository. 
    ```
    echo deb http://packages.prosody.im/debian $(lsb_release -sc) main | sudo tee -a /etc/apt/sources.list
    wget https://prosody.im/files/prosody-debian-packages.key -O- | sudo apt-key add -
    apt install lua5.2
    ```
5. Download the APT key and set up the repositories of Jitsi:
    ```
    wget -qO - https://download.jitsi.org/jitsi-key.gpg.key | apt-key add -
    sh -c "echo 'deb https://download.jitsi.org stable/' > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/jitsi-stable.list"
    apt update
    ```
6. Launch the installation of Jitsi Meet.
    ```
    apt install -y jitsi-meet
    ```

>     When asked, enter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    When asked:
```

>     - The FQDN of your instance. For example `jitsi.mydomain.tld` and press Enter. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - enter the FQDN of your Instance. For example `jitsi.mydomain.tld` and press Enter. 
```

>     - When asked about the SSL certificate choose the `Let's Encrypt certificates` option and press Enter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - about the SSL certificate, choose the `Let's Encrypt certificates` option and press Enter.
```

>     - Your email address.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - enter your email address.
```

>     - Your phone number (optional).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - enter your phone number (optional).
```

> 7. Open a Web-browser and type the FQDN of your instance, for example: `https://jitsi.mydomain.tld`. The following screen displays:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Open a Web-browser and type the FQDN of your Instance, for example: `https://jitsi.mydomain.tld`. The following screen displays:
```
